doc/rados/configuration/auth-config-ref.rst, before:

========================
 Cephx Config Reference
========================

The ``cephx`` protocol is enabled by default. Cryptographic authentication has
some computational costs, though they should generally be quite low.  If the
network environment connecting your client and server hosts is very safe and 
you cannot afford authentication, you can turn it off. **This is not generally
recommended**.

.. note:: If you disable authentication, you are at risk of a man-in-the-middle
   attack altering your client/server messages, which could lead to disastrous 
   security effects.

For creating users, see `User Management`_. For details on the architecture
of Cephx, see `Architecture - High Availability Authentication`_.


Deployment Scenarios
====================

There are two main scenarios for deploying a Ceph cluster, which impact 
how you initially configure Cephx. Most first time Ceph users use 
``ceph-deploy`` to create a cluster (easiest). For clusters using
other deployment tools (e.g., Chef, Juju, Puppet, etc.), you will need
to use the manual procedures or configure your deployment tool to 
bootstrap your monitor(s).

ceph-deploy
-----------

When you deploy a cluster with ``ceph-deploy``, you do not have to bootstrap the
monitor manually or create the ``client.admin`` user or keyring. The steps you
execute in the `Storage Cluster Quick Start`_ will invoke ``ceph-deploy`` to do
that for you.

When you execute ``ceph-deploy new {initial-monitor(s)}``, Ceph will create a
monitor keyring for you (only used to bootstrap monitors), and it will generate
an  initial Ceph configuration file for you, which contains the following
authentication settings, indicating that Ceph enables authentication by
default::

	auth_cluster_required = cephx
	auth_service_required = cephx
	auth_client_required = cephx

When you execute ``ceph-deploy mon create-initial``, Ceph will bootstrap the
initial monitor(s), retrieve a ``ceph.client.admin.keyring`` file containing the
key for the  ``client.admin`` user. Additionally, it will also retrieve keyrings
that give ``ceph-deploy`` and ``ceph-disk`` utilities the ability to prepare and
activate OSDs and metadata servers.

When you execute ``ceph-deploy admin {node-name}`` (**note:** Ceph must be 
installed first), you are pushing a Ceph configuration file and the
``ceph.client.admin.keyring`` to the ``/etc/ceph``  directory of the node. You
will be able to execute Ceph administrative functions as ``root`` on the command 
line of that node.


Manual Deployment
-----------------

When you deploy a cluster manually, you have to bootstrap the monitor manually
and create the ``client.admin`` user and keyring. To bootstrap monitors, follow
the steps in `Monitor Bootstrapping`_. The steps for monitor bootstrapping are
the logical steps you must perform when using third party deployment tools like
Chef, Puppet,  Juju, etc.


Enabling/Disabling Cephx
========================

Enabling Cephx requires that you have deployed keys for your monitors,
OSDs and metadata servers. If you are simply toggling Cephx on / off, 
you do not have to repeat the bootstrapping procedures.


Enabling Cephx
--------------

When ``cephx`` is enabled, Ceph will look for the keyring in the default search
path, which includes ``/etc/ceph/$cluster.$name.keyring``. You can override 
this location by adding a ``keyring`` option in the ``[global]`` section of 
your `Ceph configuration`_ file, but this is not recommended.

Execute the following procedures to enable ``cephx`` on a cluster with
authentication disabled. If you (or your deployment utility) have already
generated the keys, you may skip the steps related to generating keys.

#. Create a ``client.admin`` key, and save a copy of the key for your client 
   host::

	ceph auth get-or-create client.admin mon 'allow *' mds 'allow *' osd 'allow *' -o /etc/ceph/ceph.client.admin.keyring

   **Warning:** This will clobber any existing 
   ``/etc/ceph/client.admin.keyring`` file. Do not perform this step if a 
   deployment tool has already done it for you. Be careful!

#. Create a keyring for your monitor cluster and generate a monitor 
   secret key. ::

	ceph-authtool --create-keyring /tmp/ceph.mon.keyring --gen-key -n mon. --cap mon 'allow *'

#. Copy the monitor keyring into a ``ceph.mon.keyring`` file in every monitor's 
   ``mon data`` directory. For example, to copy it to ``mon.a`` in cluster ``ceph``, 
   use the following::

    cp /tmp/ceph.mon.keyring /var/lib/ceph/mon/ceph-a/keyring

#. Generate a secret key for every OSD, where ``{$id}`` is the OSD number::

    ceph auth get-or-create osd.{$id} mon 'allow rwx' osd 'allow *' -o /var/lib/ceph/osd/ceph-{$id}/keyring

#. Generate a secret key for every MDS, where ``{$id}`` is the MDS letter::

    ceph auth get-or-create mds.{$id} mon 'allow rwx' osd 'allow *' mds 'allow *' -o /var/lib/ceph/mds/ceph-{$id}/keyring

#. Enable ``cephx`` authentication by setting the following options in the 
   ``[global]`` section of your `Ceph configuration`_ file::

    auth cluster required = cephx
    auth service required = cephx
    auth client required = cephx


#. Start or restart the Ceph cluster. See `Operating a Cluster`_ for details. 

For details on bootstrapping a monitor manually, see `Manual Deployment`_.



Disabling Cephx
---------------

The following procedure describes how to disable Cephx. If your cluster
environment is relatively safe, you can offset the computation expense of
running authentication. **We do not recommend it.** However, it may be easier
during setup and/or troubleshooting to temporarily disable authentication.

#. Disable ``cephx`` authentication by setting the following options in the 
   ``[global]`` section of your `Ceph configuration`_ file::

    auth cluster required = none
    auth service required = none
    auth client required = none


#. Start or restart the Ceph cluster. See `Operating a Cluster`_ for details.


Configuration Settings
======================

Enablement
----------


``auth cluster required``

:Description: If enabled, the Ceph Storage Cluster daemons (i.e., ``ceph-mon``,
              ``ceph-osd``, and ``ceph-mds``) must authenticate with 
              each other. Valid settings are ``cephx`` or ``none``.

:Type: String
:Required: No
:Default: ``cephx``.

    
``auth service required``

:Description: If enabled, the Ceph Storage Cluster daemons require Ceph Clients
              to authenticate with the Ceph Storage Cluster in order to access 
              Ceph services. Valid settings are ``cephx`` or ``none``.

:Type: String
:Required: No
:Default: ``cephx``.


``auth client required``

:Description: If enabled, the Ceph Client requires the Ceph Storage Cluster to 
              authenticate with the Ceph Client. Valid settings are ``cephx`` 
              or ``none``.

:Type: String
:Required: No
:Default: ``cephx``.


.. index:: keys; keyring

Keys
----

When you run Ceph with authentication enabled, ``ceph`` administrative commands
and Ceph Clients require authentication keys to access the Ceph Storage Cluster.

The most common way to provide these keys to the ``ceph`` administrative
commands and clients is to include a Ceph keyring under the ``/etc/ceph``
directory. For Cuttlefish and later releases using ``ceph-deploy``, the filename
is usually ``ceph.client.admin.keyring`` (or ``$cluster.client.admin.keyring``).
If you include the keyring under the ``/etc/ceph`` directory, you don't need to
specify a ``keyring`` entry in your Ceph configuration file.

We recommend copying the Ceph Storage Cluster's keyring file to nodes where you
will run administrative commands, because it contains the ``client.admin`` key.

You may use ``ceph-deploy admin`` to perform this task. See `Create an Admin
Host`_ for details. To perform this step manually, execute the following::

	sudo scp {user}@{ceph-cluster-host}:/etc/ceph/ceph.client.admin.keyring /etc/ceph/ceph.client.admin.keyring

.. tip:: Ensure the ``ceph.keyring`` file has appropriate permissions set 
   (e.g., ``chmod 644``) on your client machine.

You may specify the key itself in the Ceph configuration file using the ``key``
setting (not recommended), or a path to a keyfile using the ``keyfile`` setting.


``keyring``

:Description: The path to the keyring file. 
:Type: String
:Required: No
:Default: ``/etc/ceph/$cluster.$name.keyring,/etc/ceph/$cluster.keyring,/etc/ceph/keyring,/etc/ceph/keyring.bin``


``keyfile``

:Description: The path to a key file (i.e,. a file containing only the key).
:Type: String
:Required: No
:Default: None


``key``

:Description: The key (i.e., the text string of the key itself). Not recommended.
:Type: String
:Required: No
:Default: None


Daemon Keyrings
---------------

Administrative users or deployment tools  (e.g., ``ceph-deploy``) may generate
daemon keyrings in the same way as generating user keyrings.  By default, Ceph
stores daemons keyrings inside their data directory. The default keyring
locations, and the capabilities necessary for the daemon to function, are shown
below.

``ceph-mon``

:Location: ``$mon_data/keyring``
:Capabilities: ``mon 'allow *'``

``ceph-osd``

:Location: ``$osd_data/keyring``
:Capabilities: ``mon 'allow profile osd' osd 'allow *'``

``ceph-mds``

:Location: ``$mds_data/keyring``
:Capabilities: ``mds 'allow' mon 'allow profile mds' osd 'allow rwx'``

``radosgw``

:Location: ``$rgw_data/keyring``
:Capabilities: ``mon 'allow rwx' osd 'allow rwx'``


.. note:: The monitor keyring (i.e., ``mon.``) contains a key but no 
   capabilities, and is not part of the cluster ``auth`` database.

The daemon data directory locations default to directories of the form::

  /var/lib/ceph/$type/$cluster-$id

For example, ``osd.12`` would be::

  /var/lib/ceph/osd/ceph-12

You can override these locations, but it is not recommended.


.. index:: signatures

Signatures
----------

In Ceph Bobtail and subsequent versions, we prefer that Ceph authenticate all
ongoing messages between the entities using the session key set up for that
initial authentication. However, Argonaut and earlier Ceph daemons do not know
how to perform ongoing message authentication. To maintain backward
compatibility (e.g., running both Botbail and Argonaut daemons in the same
cluster), message signing is **off** by default. If you are running Bobtail or
later daemons exclusively, configure Ceph to require signatures.

Like other parts of Ceph authentication, Ceph provides fine-grained control so
you can enable/disable signatures for service messages between the client and
Ceph, and you can enable/disable signatures for messages between Ceph daemons.


``cephx require signatures``

:Description: If set to ``true``, Ceph requires signatures on all message 
              traffic between the Ceph Client and the Ceph Storage Cluster, and 
              between daemons comprising the Ceph Storage Cluster. 

:Type: Boolean
:Required: No
:Default: ``false``


``cephx cluster require signatures``

:Description: If set to ``true``, Ceph requires signatures on all message
              traffic between Ceph daemons comprising the Ceph Storage Cluster. 

:Type: Boolean
:Required: No
:Default: ``false``


``cephx service require signatures``

:Description: If set to ``true``, Ceph requires signatures on all message
              traffic between Ceph Clients and the Ceph Storage Cluster.

:Type: Boolean
:Required: No
:Default: ``false``


``cephx sign messages``

:Description: If the Ceph version supports message signing, Ceph will sign
              all messages so they cannot be spoofed.

:Type: Boolean
:Default: ``true``


Time to Live
------------

``auth service ticket ttl``

:Description: When the Ceph Storage Cluster sends a Ceph Client a ticket for 
              authentication, the Ceph Storage Cluster assigns the ticket a 
              time to live.

:Type: Double
:Default: ``60*60``


Backward Compatibility
======================

For Cuttlefish and earlier releases, see `Cephx`_.

In Ceph Argonaut v0.48 and earlier versions, if you enable ``cephx``
authentication, Ceph only authenticates the initial communication between the
client and daemon; Ceph does not authenticate the subsequent messages they send
to each other, which has security implications. In Ceph Bobtail and subsequent
versions, Ceph authenticates all ongoing messages between the entities using the
session key set up for that initial authentication.

We identified a backward compatibility issue between Argonaut v0.48 (and prior
versions) and Bobtail (and subsequent versions). During testing, if you
attempted  to use Argonaut (and earlier) daemons with Bobtail (and later)
daemons, the Argonaut daemons did not know how to perform ongoing message
authentication, while the Bobtail versions of the daemons insist on
authenticating message traffic subsequent to the initial
request/response--making it impossible for Argonaut (and prior) daemons to
interoperate with Bobtail (and subsequent) daemons.

We have addressed this potential problem by providing a means for Argonaut (and
prior) systems to interact with Bobtail (and subsequent) systems. Here's how it
works: by default, the newer systems will not insist on seeing signatures from
older systems that do not know how to perform them, but will simply accept such
messages without authenticating them. This new default behavior provides the
advantage of allowing two different releases to interact. **We do not recommend
this as a long term solution**. Allowing newer daemons to forgo ongoing
authentication has the unfortunate security effect that an attacker with control
of some of your machines or some access to your network can disable session
security simply by claiming to be unable to sign messages.  

.. note:: Even if you don't actually run any old versions of Ceph, 
   the attacker may be able to force some messages to be accepted unsigned in the 
   default scenario. While running Cephx with the default scenario, Ceph still
   authenticates the initial communication, but you lose desirable session security.

If you know that you are not running older versions of Ceph, or you are willing
to accept that old servers and new servers will not be able to interoperate, you
can eliminate this security risk.  If you do so, any Ceph system that is new
enough to support session authentication and that has Cephx enabled will reject
unsigned messages.  To preclude new servers from interacting with old servers,
include the following in the ``[global]`` section of your `Ceph
configuration`_ file directly below the line that specifies the use of Cephx
for authentication::

	cephx require signatures = true    ; everywhere possible

You can also selectively require signatures for cluster internal
communications only, separate from client-facing service::

	cephx cluster require signatures = true    ; for cluster-internal communication
	cephx service require signatures = true    ; for client-facing service

An option to make a client require signatures from the cluster is not
yet implemented.

**We recommend migrating all daemons to the newer versions and enabling the 
foregoing flag** at the nearest practical time so that you may avail yourself 
of the enhanced authentication.

.. note:: Ceph kernel modules do not support signatures yet.


.. _Storage Cluster Quick Start: ../../../start/quick-ceph-deploy/
.. _Monitor Bootstrapping: ../../../install/manual-deployment#monitor-bootstrapping
.. _Operating a Cluster: ../../operations/operating
.. _Manual Deployment: ../../../install/manual-deployment
.. _Cephx: http://docs.ceph.com/docs/cuttlefish/rados/configuration/auth-config-ref/
.. _Ceph configuration: ../ceph-conf
.. _Create an Admin Host: ../../deployment/ceph-deploy-admin
.. _Architecture - High Availability Authentication: ../../../architecture#high-availability-authentication
.. _User Management: ../../operations/user-management

Commit message:

cephx: update docs
Remove confusing references to ancient releases.  Be a bit more clear
about what signatures do/don't protect.

Signed-off-by: Sage Weil <sage@redhat.com>
(cherry picked from commit 1004c050a1d750d850379b7f66b8559302faac8b)
(cherry picked from commit 0f1ecf11732dd59ccb100da09f291f5b4aec59c6)

doc/rados/configuration/auth-config-ref.rst, after:

========================
 Cephx Config Reference
========================

The ``cephx`` protocol is enabled by default. Cryptographic authentication has
some computational costs, though they should generally be quite low.  If the
network environment connecting your client and server hosts is very safe and 
you cannot afford authentication, you can turn it off. **This is not generally
recommended**.

.. note:: If you disable authentication, you are at risk of a man-in-the-middle
   attack altering your client/server messages, which could lead to disastrous 
   security effects.

For creating users, see `User Management`_. For details on the architecture
of Cephx, see `Architecture - High Availability Authentication`_.


Deployment Scenarios
====================

There are two main scenarios for deploying a Ceph cluster, which impact 
how you initially configure Cephx. Most first time Ceph users use 
``ceph-deploy`` to create a cluster (easiest). For clusters using
other deployment tools (e.g., Chef, Juju, Puppet, etc.), you will need
to use the manual procedures or configure your deployment tool to 
bootstrap your monitor(s).

ceph-deploy
-----------

When you deploy a cluster with ``ceph-deploy``, you do not have to bootstrap the
monitor manually or create the ``client.admin`` user or keyring. The steps you
execute in the `Storage Cluster Quick Start`_ will invoke ``ceph-deploy`` to do
that for you.

When you execute ``ceph-deploy new {initial-monitor(s)}``, Ceph will create a
monitor keyring for you (only used to bootstrap monitors), and it will generate
an  initial Ceph configuration file for you, which contains the following
authentication settings, indicating that Ceph enables authentication by
default::

	auth_cluster_required = cephx
	auth_service_required = cephx
	auth_client_required = cephx

When you execute ``ceph-deploy mon create-initial``, Ceph will bootstrap the
initial monitor(s), retrieve a ``ceph.client.admin.keyring`` file containing the
key for the  ``client.admin`` user. Additionally, it will also retrieve keyrings
that give ``ceph-deploy`` and ``ceph-disk`` utilities the ability to prepare and
activate OSDs and metadata servers.

When you execute ``ceph-deploy admin {node-name}`` (**note:** Ceph must be 
installed first), you are pushing a Ceph configuration file and the
``ceph.client.admin.keyring`` to the ``/etc/ceph``  directory of the node. You
will be able to execute Ceph administrative functions as ``root`` on the command 
line of that node.


Manual Deployment
-----------------

When you deploy a cluster manually, you have to bootstrap the monitor manually
and create the ``client.admin`` user and keyring. To bootstrap monitors, follow
the steps in `Monitor Bootstrapping`_. The steps for monitor bootstrapping are
the logical steps you must perform when using third party deployment tools like
Chef, Puppet,  Juju, etc.


Enabling/Disabling Cephx
========================

Enabling Cephx requires that you have deployed keys for your monitors,
OSDs and metadata servers. If you are simply toggling Cephx on / off, 
you do not have to repeat the bootstrapping procedures.


Enabling Cephx
--------------

When ``cephx`` is enabled, Ceph will look for the keyring in the default search
path, which includes ``/etc/ceph/$cluster.$name.keyring``. You can override 
this location by adding a ``keyring`` option in the ``[global]`` section of 
your `Ceph configuration`_ file, but this is not recommended.

Execute the following procedures to enable ``cephx`` on a cluster with
authentication disabled. If you (or your deployment utility) have already
generated the keys, you may skip the steps related to generating keys.

#. Create a ``client.admin`` key, and save a copy of the key for your client 
   host::

	ceph auth get-or-create client.admin mon 'allow *' mds 'allow *' osd 'allow *' -o /etc/ceph/ceph.client.admin.keyring

   **Warning:** This will clobber any existing 
   ``/etc/ceph/client.admin.keyring`` file. Do not perform this step if a 
   deployment tool has already done it for you. Be careful!

#. Create a keyring for your monitor cluster and generate a monitor 
   secret key. ::

	ceph-authtool --create-keyring /tmp/ceph.mon.keyring --gen-key -n mon. --cap mon 'allow *'

#. Copy the monitor keyring into a ``ceph.mon.keyring`` file in every monitor's 
   ``mon data`` directory. For example, to copy it to ``mon.a`` in cluster ``ceph``, 
   use the following::

    cp /tmp/ceph.mon.keyring /var/lib/ceph/mon/ceph-a/keyring

#. Generate a secret key for every OSD, where ``{$id}`` is the OSD number::

    ceph auth get-or-create osd.{$id} mon 'allow rwx' osd 'allow *' -o /var/lib/ceph/osd/ceph-{$id}/keyring

#. Generate a secret key for every MDS, where ``{$id}`` is the MDS letter::

    ceph auth get-or-create mds.{$id} mon 'allow rwx' osd 'allow *' mds 'allow *' -o /var/lib/ceph/mds/ceph-{$id}/keyring

#. Enable ``cephx`` authentication by setting the following options in the 
   ``[global]`` section of your `Ceph configuration`_ file::

    auth cluster required = cephx
    auth service required = cephx
    auth client required = cephx


#. Start or restart the Ceph cluster. See `Operating a Cluster`_ for details. 

For details on bootstrapping a monitor manually, see `Manual Deployment`_.



Disabling Cephx
---------------

The following procedure describes how to disable Cephx. If your cluster
environment is relatively safe, you can offset the computation expense of
running authentication. **We do not recommend it.** However, it may be easier
during setup and/or troubleshooting to temporarily disable authentication.

#. Disable ``cephx`` authentication by setting the following options in the 
   ``[global]`` section of your `Ceph configuration`_ file::

    auth cluster required = none
    auth service required = none
    auth client required = none


#. Start or restart the Ceph cluster. See `Operating a Cluster`_ for details.


Configuration Settings
======================

Enablement
----------


``auth cluster required``

:Description: If enabled, the Ceph Storage Cluster daemons (i.e., ``ceph-mon``,
              ``ceph-osd``, and ``ceph-mds``) must authenticate with 
              each other. Valid settings are ``cephx`` or ``none``.

:Type: String
:Required: No
:Default: ``cephx``.

    
``auth service required``

:Description: If enabled, the Ceph Storage Cluster daemons require Ceph Clients
              to authenticate with the Ceph Storage Cluster in order to access 
              Ceph services. Valid settings are ``cephx`` or ``none``.

:Type: String
:Required: No
:Default: ``cephx``.


``auth client required``

:Description: If enabled, the Ceph Client requires the Ceph Storage Cluster to 
              authenticate with the Ceph Client. Valid settings are ``cephx`` 
              or ``none``.

:Type: String
:Required: No
:Default: ``cephx``.


.. index:: keys; keyring

Keys
----

When you run Ceph with authentication enabled, ``ceph`` administrative commands
and Ceph Clients require authentication keys to access the Ceph Storage Cluster.

The most common way to provide these keys to the ``ceph`` administrative
commands and clients is to include a Ceph keyring under the ``/etc/ceph``
directory. For Cuttlefish and later releases using ``ceph-deploy``, the filename
is usually ``ceph.client.admin.keyring`` (or ``$cluster.client.admin.keyring``).
If you include the keyring under the ``/etc/ceph`` directory, you don't need to
specify a ``keyring`` entry in your Ceph configuration file.

We recommend copying the Ceph Storage Cluster's keyring file to nodes where you
will run administrative commands, because it contains the ``client.admin`` key.

You may use ``ceph-deploy admin`` to perform this task. See `Create an Admin
Host`_ for details. To perform this step manually, execute the following::

	sudo scp {user}@{ceph-cluster-host}:/etc/ceph/ceph.client.admin.keyring /etc/ceph/ceph.client.admin.keyring

.. tip:: Ensure the ``ceph.keyring`` file has appropriate permissions set 
   (e.g., ``chmod 644``) on your client machine.

You may specify the key itself in the Ceph configuration file using the ``key``
setting (not recommended), or a path to a keyfile using the ``keyfile`` setting.


``keyring``

:Description: The path to the keyring file. 
:Type: String
:Required: No
:Default: ``/etc/ceph/$cluster.$name.keyring,/etc/ceph/$cluster.keyring,/etc/ceph/keyring,/etc/ceph/keyring.bin``


``keyfile``

:Description: The path to a key file (i.e,. a file containing only the key).
:Type: String
:Required: No
:Default: None


``key``

:Description: The key (i.e., the text string of the key itself). Not recommended.
:Type: String
:Required: No
:Default: None


Daemon Keyrings
---------------

Administrative users or deployment tools  (e.g., ``ceph-deploy``) may generate
daemon keyrings in the same way as generating user keyrings.  By default, Ceph
stores daemons keyrings inside their data directory. The default keyring
locations, and the capabilities necessary for the daemon to function, are shown
below.

``ceph-mon``

:Location: ``$mon_data/keyring``
:Capabilities: ``mon 'allow *'``

``ceph-osd``

:Location: ``$osd_data/keyring``
:Capabilities: ``mon 'allow profile osd' osd 'allow *'``

``ceph-mds``

:Location: ``$mds_data/keyring``
:Capabilities: ``mds 'allow' mon 'allow profile mds' osd 'allow rwx'``

``radosgw``

:Location: ``$rgw_data/keyring``
:Capabilities: ``mon 'allow rwx' osd 'allow rwx'``


.. note:: The monitor keyring (i.e., ``mon.``) contains a key but no 
   capabilities, and is not part of the cluster ``auth`` database.

The daemon data directory locations default to directories of the form::

  /var/lib/ceph/$type/$cluster-$id

For example, ``osd.12`` would be::

  /var/lib/ceph/osd/ceph-12

You can override these locations, but it is not recommended.


.. index:: signatures

Signatures
----------

Ceph performs a signature check that provides some limited protection
against messages being tampered with in flight (e.g., by a "man in the
middle" attack).

Like other parts of Ceph authentication, Ceph provides fine-grained control so
you can enable/disable signatures for service messages between the client and
Ceph, and you can enable/disable signatures for messages between Ceph daemons.

Note that even with signatures enabled data is not encrypted in
flight.

``cephx require signatures``

:Description: If set to ``true``, Ceph requires signatures on all message 
              traffic between the Ceph Client and the Ceph Storage Cluster, and 
              between daemons comprising the Ceph Storage Cluster. 

	      Ceph Argonaut and Linux kernel versions prior to 3.19 do
	      not support signatures; if such clients are in use this
	      option can be turned off to allow them to connect.

:Type: Boolean
:Required: No
:Default: ``false``


``cephx cluster require signatures``

:Description: If set to ``true``, Ceph requires signatures on all message
              traffic between Ceph daemons comprising the Ceph Storage Cluster. 

:Type: Boolean
:Required: No
:Default: ``false``


``cephx service require signatures``

:Description: If set to ``true``, Ceph requires signatures on all message
              traffic between Ceph Clients and the Ceph Storage Cluster.

:Type: Boolean
:Required: No
:Default: ``false``


``cephx sign messages``

:Description: If the Ceph version supports message signing, Ceph will sign
              all messages so they are more difficult to spoof.

:Type: Boolean
:Default: ``true``


Time to Live
------------

``auth service ticket ttl``

:Description: When the Ceph Storage Cluster sends a Ceph Client a ticket for 
              authentication, the Ceph Storage Cluster assigns the ticket a 
              time to live.

:Type: Double
:Default: ``60*60``


Backward Compatibility
======================

For Cuttlefish and earlier releases, see `Cephx`_.

In Ceph Argonaut v0.48 and earlier versions, if you enable ``cephx``
authentication, Ceph only authenticates the initial communication between the
client and daemon; Ceph does not authenticate the subsequent messages they send
to each other, which has security implications. In Ceph Bobtail and subsequent
versions, Ceph authenticates all ongoing messages between the entities using the
session key set up for that initial authentication.

We identified a backward compatibility issue between Argonaut v0.48 (and prior
versions) and Bobtail (and subsequent versions). During testing, if you
attempted  to use Argonaut (and earlier) daemons with Bobtail (and later)
daemons, the Argonaut daemons did not know how to perform ongoing message
authentication, while the Bobtail versions of the daemons insist on
authenticating message traffic subsequent to the initial
request/response--making it impossible for Argonaut (and prior) daemons to
interoperate with Bobtail (and subsequent) daemons.

We have addressed this potential problem by providing a means for Argonaut (and
prior) systems to interact with Bobtail (and subsequent) systems. Here's how it
works: by default, the newer systems will not insist on seeing signatures from
older systems that do not know how to perform them, but will simply accept such
messages without authenticating them. This new default behavior provides the
advantage of allowing two different releases to interact. **We do not recommend
this as a long term solution**. Allowing newer daemons to forgo ongoing
authentication has the unfortunate security effect that an attacker with control
of some of your machines or some access to your network can disable session
security simply by claiming to be unable to sign messages.  

.. note:: Even if you don't actually run any old versions of Ceph, 
   the attacker may be able to force some messages to be accepted unsigned in the 
   default scenario. While running Cephx with the default scenario, Ceph still
   authenticates the initial communication, but you lose desirable session security.

If you know that you are not running older versions of Ceph, or you are willing
to accept that old servers and new servers will not be able to interoperate, you
can eliminate this security risk.  If you do so, any Ceph system that is new
enough to support session authentication and that has Cephx enabled will reject
unsigned messages.  To preclude new servers from interacting with old servers,
include the following in the ``[global]`` section of your `Ceph
configuration`_ file directly below the line that specifies the use of Cephx
for authentication::

	cephx require signatures = true    ; everywhere possible

You can also selectively require signatures for cluster internal
communications only, separate from client-facing service::

	cephx cluster require signatures = true    ; for cluster-internal communication
	cephx service require signatures = true    ; for client-facing service

An option to make a client require signatures from the cluster is not
yet implemented.

**We recommend migrating all daemons to the newer versions and enabling the 
foregoing flag** at the nearest practical time so that you may avail yourself 
of the enhanced authentication.

.. note:: Ceph kernel modules do not support signatures yet.


.. _Storage Cluster Quick Start: ../../../start/quick-ceph-deploy/
.. _Monitor Bootstrapping: ../../../install/manual-deployment#monitor-bootstrapping
.. _Operating a Cluster: ../../operations/operating
.. _Manual Deployment: ../../../install/manual-deployment
.. _Cephx: http://docs.ceph.com/docs/cuttlefish/rados/configuration/auth-config-ref/
.. _Ceph configuration: ../ceph-conf
.. _Create an Admin Host: ../../deployment/ceph-deploy-admin
.. _Architecture - High Availability Authentication: ../../../architecture#high-availability-authentication
.. _User Management: ../../operations/user-management
